KAPLAN REVISED WRITING EXAMINATION DESCRIPTORS (September 2019) 
NB. Please select ÒTHE BEST FITÓ in each category; it is not necessary for all aspects to be present.
GRADE 
Task Achievement 
Language Range 
Language Accuracy 
Cohesion & Coherence
KIC  
Band  
90
? smoothly flowing, sophisticated, persuasive  and convincing response to the question which  precisely addresses the nuances of the task  
? all content is pertinent, clearly explained and  discussed fully 
? numerous precise examples are skilfully  synthesised with own opinions to support the  argument 
? a complex, detailed, effective discursive text ? number of words is optimal; comprehensive yet succinct 
? flexible mastery of very broad range of  complex structures and vocabulary  
indistinguishable from that of an  
educated first-language user in an HE  context 
? sustained use of less common vocabulary,  collocations , idiomatic or subject-specific  lexis 
? very wide variety of language sufficient to  eliminate any ambiguity & differentiate  finer shades of meaning
? consistently maintains a very high degree  of grammatical accuracy, even with  
complex language 
? word choice is precise in all contexts,  including academic, subject-specific ,  idiomatic or technical usage 
? may appear error free 
? tone and register are fully appropriate for  the task
? essay structure is highly effective and logical  with skilful organisation which helps the  reader to focus on the most significant points 
? skilful use of a very broad range of more  complex cohesive devices; linguistic referencing  is accurate, sophisticated and appropriate  throughout 
? key points are skilfully and succinctly drawn  together in a clear and convincing conclusion
KIC 
Band  
85
? sophisticated, persuasive and convincing  response to the question which addresses the  nuances of the task 
? content is pertinent & clearly explained ? information & examples are skilfully  
synthesised with own opinions to support the  argument  
? a detailed and effective discursive text ? number of words is optimal to present  argument clearly, comprehensively &  
succinctly 
? flexible use of complex language, almost  like that of an educated first-language user in an HE context 
? very broad range of complex structures ? very broad repertoire of vocabulary ? sustained use of less common vocabulary, collocations or idiomatic phrases 
? very wide variety of language sufficient to  formulate thoughts precisely with no  sign of having to restrict content
? consistently maintains a very high degree  of grammatical accuracy, even with  complex language 
? word choice is correct in academic,  subject-specific, idiomatic or technical  usage 
? errors are rare and difficult to spot ? tone and register are appropriate for the  task
? essay is very well structured & sub-themes are  skilfully integrated; the reader can follow with  ease throughout 
? skilful use of broad range of more complex  cohesive devices; linguistic referencing is  accurate, sophisticated and appropriate  throughout 
? key points are skilfully and succinctly drawn  together in a clear conclusion
KIC  
Band  
80
? sophisticated, persuasive and convincing argument which clearly addresses the task ? content is pertinent, salient issues are  emphasised & clarified so that the reader can  follow the argument 
? information & examples are skilfully 
synthesised with own opinions to support the argument  
? a very effective discursive text 
? number of words is optimal to present  argument clearly, comprehensively &  
succinctly without overelaboration
? very broad range of complex structures ? very broad repertoire of vocabulary ? sustained use of less common vocabulary,  collocations or idiomatic phrases  
? variety of language sufficient to express  views clearly without having to restrict  content 
? range of complex hedging and tentative  language qualifies statements with  
precision
? consistently maintains a very high degree  of grammatical accuracy 
? word choice is correct in some academic,  subject specific, idiomatic or technical  usage 
? errors are rare, and only occur in  complex language 
? tone and register are appropriate for the  task
? essay is very well structured & sub-themes are  integrated; the reader can follow with ease throughout 
? skilful use of a broad range of more complex  cohesive devices; linguistic referencing is  accurate, sophisticated and appropriate  
? key points are skilfully and succinctly drawn  together in a clear conclusion
KIC 
Band  
75
? strong & persuasive argument which 
addresses the task 
? content is pertinent, salient issues are  emphasised & clarified so that the reader can  follow the argument  
? information & examples are effectively synthesised with own opinions to support  argument 
? an effective discursive text  
? number of words is appropriate to present 
? broad range of complex structures ? broad repertoire of vocabulary 
? sustained use of less common  
vocabulary, collocations or idiomatic  phrases  
? variety of language sufficient to express  views clearly without having to restrict  content 
? hedging and tentative language qualifies  statements with precision
? maintains very good grammatical control  & accuracy so that meaning is clear 
throughout 
? word choice correct throughout 
? very few mistakes, usually only in  complex language 
? tone and register are generally  
appropriate, with at most occasional,  minor inappropriacies
? essay is well structured, ideas are ordered  logically & sub-themes are integrated so that  the reader can follow with ease 
? skilful use of more complex cohesive devices,  e.g. linguistic referencing is accurate and  appropriate 
? draws main ideas together in clear & succinct conclusion


KAPLAN REVISED WRITING EXAMINATION DESCRIPTORS (September 2019) 
NB. Please select ÒTHE BEST FITÓ in each category; it is not necessary for all aspects to be present.

argument comprehensively



GRADE 
Task Achievement 
Language Range 
Language Accuracy 
Cohesion & Coherence
KIC  
Band  
70
? strong argument with clearly defined position  which addresses the task 
? content is pertinent, some salient issues are  emphasised & explained clearly so the reader  can follow the argument 
? relevant information & examples are 
synthesised with own opinions to support  argument 
? an effective discursive text 
? number of words is appropriate to present  ideas clearly
? broad range of complex structures ? repertoire of vocabulary is sufficient to  write at length with precision & detail ? frequent use of less common vocabulary,  collocations or idiomatic phrases 
? variety of language to emphasise salient points, describe, evaluate ideas,  
hypothesise, express abstract ideas and  views precisely 
? hedging and tentative language qualifies  statements with precision at times
? simple structures consistently correct ? many complex structures correct 
? word choice is correct even in more  complex stretches of language 
? few mistakes, generally in more complex  language, but meaning is clear 
? tone and register are generally  
appropriate, with at most occasional, minor inappropriacies
? essay is well structured, ideas are ordered  logically & sub-themes are integrated so the  reader can follow 
? relationship between ideas effectively marked  & significant points are highlighted with precise  and flexible use of a variety of linking words 
? effective use of more complex cohesive  devices, e.g. linguistic referencing is accurate  and appropriate 
? draws main ideas together in clear conclusion
KIC 
Band  
65
? argument is systematically developed with a  stated position which addresses the task ? content is mostly pertinent  
? highlights significant points & relevant  supporting details; the reader can mostly  follow the argument 
? some information & examples are synthesised  with own opinions  
? different viewpoints are represented with  some clarity, but may lack evaluation 
? number of words is appropriate but may  over- or under-elaborate certain points
? broad range of basic and some complex  structures 
? enough vocabulary to write at length  with precision at times 
? some less common vocabulary or  
collocations 
? enough language to describe,  
hypothesise, evaluate and express  
abstract ideas and views, but not always  clearly 
? basic and complex hedging and tentative  language is used to qualify statements
? most simple structures correct 
? some complex structures correct 
? word choice is often correct even in more  complex stretches of language 
? some mistakes, but meaning is clear ? tone and register are generally  
appropriate, with at most occasional  inappropriacies
? essay is clearly structured; ideas are ordered &  paragraphed logically so that the content  develops and makes sense 
? attempts to mark relationship between ideas & highlight significant points with a variety of  linking words beyond the most basic forms  
? uses range of cohesive devices, e.g. various  forms of linguistic reference 
? draws main ideas together in conclusion
KIC  
Band  
60
? response contains a clearly discernible  argument which addresses the task 
? stated position is mainly clear 
? some pertinent points  
? some relevant examples 
? some relevant information is synthesised with  own opinions 
? discussion of different viewpoints  
? may be some repetition or over-long  
explanation
? range of basic and some complex  structures 
? enough vocabulary to convey the main  message with sufficient precision for the  reader to follow 
? attempts less common vocabulary or  collocations 
? enough language to describe, express  abstract ideas and views, but not in  much detail  
? uses basic and some complex hedging or  tentative language to qualify statements
? most simple structures correct 
? some complex structures correct 
? word choice is mostly correct  
? errors with more complex language may  detract from clarity of message 
? errors with simple language do not affect  understanding 
? tone and register are generally  
appropriate, but there may be a few inappropriacies
? essay is clearly structured; ideas are mainly  ordered & paragraphed logically so that the  content develops and makes sense  
? variety of linking words beyond the most basic  forms  
? uses other cohesive devices, e.g. various forms  of linguistic reference 
? attempts to draw main ideas together in  conclusion


KAPLAN REVISED WRITING EXAMINATION DESCRIPTORS (September 2019) 
NB. Please select ÒTHE BEST FITÓ in each category; it is not necessary for all aspects to be present.
GRADE 
Task Achievement 
Language Range 
Language Accuracy 
Cohesion & Coherence
KIC  
Band 55
? response contains an argument which  generally addresses the task 
? argument or position is present but may  lack clarity at times 
? some pertinent points  
? some relevant examples 
? may be some minor irrelevance 
? simple discussion of different viewpoints  ? discussion is generally clear enough to  follow 
? may be some repetition or over-long  explanation
? range of basic grammatical structures  ? attempts some complex structures 
? enough vocabulary to convey most of the  main points to the reader 
? may attempt some less common  
vocabulary or collocations  
? enough language to express views simply  on some abstract and cultural topics, but  not in much detail 
? uses basic hedging or tentative language to  qualify statements
? many simple structures correct 
? some complex structures may be correct ? word choice is often correct  
? mistakes are present but meaning is mostly  conveyed  
? some inappropriacies of tone and register
? ideas appear in an ordered sequence with  logical development which mainly makes  sense to the reader  
? paragraphs are clearly and appropriately  distinct with a central topic 
? uses some linking words beyond the most  basic forms (e.g. with regard to, however,  in addition, if, while, on the other hand etc)  
? uses a few forms of linguistic reference, e.g.  preparatory it/this, substitution, relative  pronouns
KIC  
Band 50
? addresses the topic(s) 
? partially addresses the task(s)  
? argument or position is present but may  not be completely clear 
? some relevant points, opinions & examples ? some irrelevances or repetition 
? limited discussion of different viewpoints  ? discussion can mostly be followed, with  some effort at times  
? number of words is sufficient for the task(s) but may include some repetition
? range of basic grammatical structures ? may attempt a few complex structures ? enough vocabulary to write about some  
aspects of the topic(s) but detail may be  lacking 
? just enough language to express views simply on some unfamiliar topics 
? attempts to use basic hedging or tentative  language to qualify statements
? many simple structures correct 
? word choice is often correct 
? word order in basic and compound  sentences is mostly correct 
? frequent mistakes but main message is  mostly conveyed 
? attempts to use appropriate tone and  register, but not always with success
? ideas are mainly ordered to create the  effect of an organised sequence of points  with some development and linking; the  reader can follow, although some effort  may be required in places 
? paragraphing is mostly appropriate ? variety of basic linking words and other  cohesive devices
KIC  
Band 45
? addresses the topic(s) 
? task(s) addressed, in a limited fashion ? a few relevant points & examples; not  clearly explained 
? evident irrelevances or omissions  
? discussion may be unclear & hard to follow ? very limited discussion of different  viewpoints  
? number of words may be insufficient to  present views clearly or may include too  much repetition
? limited variety of basic grammatical  structures  
? just enough vocabulary to write 
descriptively about the topic(s) with limited detail 
? just enough language to express views very  simply on some familiar topics
? some simple structures correct 
? word choice is mostly correct with familiar  words & phrases 
? word order in basic and compound  sentences is often correct 
? systematically makes basic mistakes but  main message is often conveyed 
? tone and register frequently not  
appropriate for the task
? ideas are ordered to create the effect of a  simple sequence of points with limited development; the reader can follow the  main message with some effort  
? paragraphs generally have clear  
topic/purpose 
? phrases are joined with basic, high 
frequency linking words 
KIC  
Band 40
? attempts to address the topic(s) 
? evident misunderstanding of the task(s) ? very limited relevant content 
? content may be underdeveloped 
? evident irrelevances & omissions  
? discussion may be unclear or lacking ? number of words may be insufficient for  the task(s) or may include too much  
repetition
? limited or repetitive use of basic  
 grammatical structures & sentence patterns ? just enough vocabulary for basic  
descriptions of everyday, concrete and  familiar aspects of the topic(s) but without  any detail 
? just enough language to convey some simple points & opinions but not with any  clarity
? some simple structures correct 
? word choice is often correct with familiar  words & phrases 
? word order in simple language is often correct 
? systematically makes basic mistakes, e.g.  choice of tenses, lack of agreement; errors  often affect understanding 
? tone and register generally not appropriate  for the task
? ideas may not be organised clearly, but the  reader can just about make sense of the  main message with considerable effort  
? paragraphs may be used but are not always  clear in topic/purpose or are distinct  
? phrases are joined with basic, high frequency linking words 


KAPLAN REVISED WRITING EXAMINATION DESCRIPTORS (September 2019) 
NB. Please select ÒTHE BEST FITÓ in each category; it is not necessary for all aspects to be present.
GRADE 
Task Achievement 
Language Range 
Language Accuracy 
Cohesion & Coherence
KIC  
Band 35
? may address the topic(s) minimally ? many irrelevances or evident  
misunderstanding of the task(s) 
? response is unclear or does not meet task  requirements 
? content is minimally developed and lacks clarity 
? number of words clearly inappropriate for  the task(s)
? very limited or repetitive use of basic  grammatical structures & sentence  
patterns 
? insufficient vocabulary to begin to address  the topic
? a few simple structures correct 
? word choice is sometimes correct with  familiar words & phrases 
? word order in very simple language is  sometimes correct 
? frequent basic mistakes often make  meaning unclear and affect understanding
? ideas are not organised clearly so the  reader cannot always make sense of the  message, even with considerable effort 
? paragraphs may not be used or they may  be unclear in topic/purpose or are  
indistinct 
? some use of basic, high-frequency linking  words (e.g. and, but, then)


